- [Instructor] Now, let's create
a Spring MVC project with Spring Boot.
Spring Boot is one of the projects
under the Spring framework
which allows you to create faster
production grade applications.
It automatically does a lot of configuration for you
without you explicitly having the need to do it.
So with minimal fuss it will create an application
which is up and running for your development process.
So we're going to adopt Spring Boot
in order to create our hplus application.
I have a slide in front of me.
Let's go through the steps one by one.
The first is we have to generate a Maven project
with Spring Initializr.
Now Spring offers a very good website of Spring Initializr.
I'm going to google that.
You can reach this link and see that
it gives you a utility to generate a project.
You can generate a Maven or Gradle project,
choose the language of your choice,
chose the Boot version, configure all of the options
and even define the pom dependencies
that you want as a part of this application.
So it'll generate that basic boiler plate code for you
and then you're just to get started.
So let's configure a project using this utility.
So we're going to go with Maven project,
the language is Java.
We'll use Spring Boot 2.1.8 version
which will include Spring MVC 5.X version
that we have based our course on.
Next, we have to define a group.
Let's define a group there.
The artifact, let's call it hplusapp.
Let's look at the other options that we can configure.
Hplusapp is the name and then there's a description.
You can rewrite that as is.
I'm not too happy with the package name
so I'm going to reconfigure that.
Let's say com.test.hplus.
Okay, in this project we are going to work with JSP
so we need a web archive,
so I'm going to choose that option.
We will stick to Java version 1.8
and now let's define the dependencies
that will get injected in the pom.xml for this project.
Firstly, if we want to work with Spring MVC
then the dependency that we're looking at is the Spring Web,
which will include all the APIs
that we want to work with Spring MVC space.
Let's add that.
Additionally, our application is also
going to converse with a database.
We have chosen MySQL DB Server.
Now, in order to do that we need the connector jar for it
so I'm going to inject that dependency.
Also, we need to write the transaction code
against the database and I am going to go ahead
with Spring Java Persistence API integration
that's already available as another project.
It's fantastic to work with Spring JPA;
however, if you're not too happy with it
you can opt for JDBC or maybe Hibernate
or any other underlying database transaction API
that you are comfortable with.
So let's go with JPA for this hplus application.
So once we do that, let's generate the project
and it will download a zip onto your downloads folder.
Let's go ahead extract that.
So there we have our hplus app,
let's copy that and put it under your ideaProjects.
And then, let's go to the IDE and open that project
so I'll say file, open
and then I'll select the project and say OK.
Open this in a new window
and we have a project building up in the IDE.
So if you expand this,
let's quickly inspect the folder structure.
You have a src folder inside which you have main, java.
So java is the place where the package has been created.
All your source code will reside in this
and your resources further has two folders,
static and templates.
Static folder is a place where you'll place
all your CSS and images.
Templates is the place where you could possibly put
your HTML files had you been working with Thymeleaf
as a view technology.
However, we are working with JSPs
so we don't really have to work with this folder.
Application.properties is a file
that will help you define key value pairs
to do any kind of configuration related
to the database or the servlet specific parameters
or maybe error pages for you application, etc.
We are going to use this in successive parts of the course.
And then, let's look at the pom.xml.
So when you create a Spring Boot project,
it will provide with a Spring Boot start up parent
and then it'll have all the default values
that we configured when generating the project.
We know that we're working with Java version 1.8
so that's defined there
and then when we look at the dependencies
you have one which is going to help us work with Spring JPA
another which is going to help us
work with the Spring MVC APIs
and then this is the one for the mysql-connector-jar
and Spring Boot has a way
to work with embedded servlet containers,
so those dependencies have been injected right there.
We also have a Spring Boot starter test
so we can test out any code that we want.
Now, let's go to the next step.